README.md, before:

nginx Cookbook
==============
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/opscode-cookbooks/nginx.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/opscode-cookbooks/nginx)

Installs nginx from package OR source code and sets up configuration handling similar to Debian's Apache2 scripts.


Requirements
------------
### Cookbooks
The following cookbooks are direct dependencies because they're used for common "default" functionality.

- build-essential (for nginx::source)
- ohai (for nginx::ohai_plugin)

The following cookbook is not a strict dependency because its use can be controlled by an attribute, so it may not be a common "default."

- runit (for nginx::source)
- On RHEL family distros, the "yum" cookbook is required for `recipe[yum::epel]`.
- On Ubuntu, when using Nginx.org's stable package, `recipe[apt::default]` is required.


### Platforms
The following platforms are supported and tested under test kitchen:

- Ubuntu 10.04, Ubuntu 12.04
- CentOS 5.8, 6.3

Other Debian and RHEL family distributions are assumed to work.


Attributes
----------
Node attributes for this cookbook are logically separated into different files. Some attributes are set only via a specific recipe.

### default
Generally used attributes. Some have platform specific values. See `attributes/default.rb`. "The Config" refers to "nginx.conf" the main config file.

- `node['nginx']['dir']` - Location for Nginx configuration.
- `node['nginx']['log_dir']` - Location for Nginx logs.
- `node['nginx']['user']` - User that Nginx will run as.
- `node['nginx']['group]` - Group for Nginx.
- `node['nginx']['binary']` - Path to the Nginx binary.
- `node['nginx']['init_style']` - How to run Nginx as a service when
  using `nginx::source`. Values can be "runit", "upstart", "init" or
  "bluepill".  When using runit or bluepill, those recipes will be
  included as well and are dependencies of this cookbook.  Recipes
  are not included for upstart, it is assumed that upstart is built
  into the platform you are using (ubuntu or el6).  This attribute is
  not used in the `nginx` recipe because the package manager's init
  script style for the platform is assumed.  Upstart is never set as
  a default as this represents a change in behavior, if you are running
  ubuntu or el6 and want to use upstart, please set this attribute in
  a role or similar.
- `node['nginx']['upstart']['foreground']` - Set this to true if you
  want upstart to run nginx in the foreground, set to false if you
  want upstart to detach and track the process via pid.
- `node['nginx']['upstart']['runlevels']` - String of runlevels in the
  format '2345' which determines which runlevels nginx will start at
  when entering and stop at when leaving.
- `node['nginx']['upstart']['respawn_limit']` - Respawn limit in upstart
  stanza format, count followed by space followed by interval in seconds.
- `node['nginx']['pid']` - Location of the PID file.
- `node['nginx']['keepalive']` - Whether to use `keepalive_timeout`,
  any value besides "on" will leave that option out of the config.
- `node['nginx']['keepalive_timeout']` - used for config value of
  `keepalive_timeout`.
- `node['nginx']['worker_processes']` - used for config value of
  `worker_processes`.
- `node['nginx']['worker_connections']` - used for config value of
  `events { worker_connections }`
- `node['nginx']['worker_rlimit_nofile']` - used for config value of
  `worker_rlimit_nofile`. Can replace any "ulimit -n" command. The
  value depend on your usage (cache or not) but must always be
  superior than worker_connections.
- `node['nginx']['multi_accept']` - used for config value of `events {
  multi_accept }`. Try to accept() as many connections as possible.
  Disable by default.
- `node['nginx']['event']` - used for config value of `events { use
  }`. Set the event-model. By default nginx looks for the most
  suitable method for your OS.
- `node['nginx']['server_tokens']` - used for config value of
  `server_tokens`.
- `node['nginx']['server_names_hash_bucket_size']` - used for config
  value of `server_names_hash_bucket_size`.
- `node['nginx']['disable_access_log']` - set to true to disable the
  general access log, may be useful on high traffic sites.
- `node['nginx']['access_log_options']` - Set to a string of additional options
  to be appended to the access log directive
- `node['nginx']['error_log_options']` - Set to a string of additional options
  to be appended to the error log directive
- `node['nginx']['default_site_enabled']` - enable the default site
- `node['nginx']['sendfile']` - Whether to use `sendfile`. Defaults to "on".
- `node['nginx']['install_method']` - Whether nginx is installed from
  packages or from source.
- `node['nginx']['types_hash_max_size']` - Used for the
  `types_hash_max_size` configuration directive.
- `node['nginx']['types_hash_bucket_size']` - Used for the
  `types_hash_bucket_size` configuration directive.
- `node['nginx']['proxy_read_timeout']` - defines a timeout (between two
  successive read operations) for reading a response from the proxied server.
- `node['nginx']['client_body_buffer_size']` - used for config value of
  `client_body_buffer_size`.
- `node['nginx']['client_max_body_size']` - specifies the maximum accepted body
  size of a client request, as indicated by the request header Content-Length.
- `node['nginx']['repo_source']` - when installed from a package this attribute affects
  which yum repositories, if any, will be added before installing the nginx package. The
  default value of 'epel' will use the `yum::epel` recipe, 'nginx' will use the
  `nginx::repo` recipe, and setting no value will not add any additional repositories.

Rate Limiting

- `node['nginx']['enable_rate_limiting']` - set to true to enable rate
  limiting (`limit_req_zone` in nginx.conf)
- `node['nginx']['rate_limiting_zone_name']` - sets the zone in
  `limit_req_zone`.
- `node['nginx']['rate_limiting_backoff']` - sets the backoff time for
  `limit_req_zone`.
- `node['nginx']['rate_limit']` - set the rate limit amount for
  `limit_req_zone`.

### gzip module

- `node['nginx']['gzip']` - Whether to use gzip, can be "on" or "off"
- `node['nginx']['gzip_http_version']` - used for config value of `gzip_http_version`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_comp_level']` - used for config value of `gzip_comp_level`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_proxied']` - used for config value of `gzip_proxied`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_vary']` - used for config value of `gzip_vary`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_buffers']` - used for config value of `gzip_buffers`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_types']` - used for config value of `gzip_types` - must be an Array.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_min_length']` - used for config value of `gzip_min_length`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_disable']` - used for config value of `gzip_disable`.

### Attributes set in recipes

#### nginx::source
- `node['nginx']['daemon_disable']` - Whether the daemon should be
  disabled which can be true or false; disable the daemon (run in the
  foreground) when using a service supervisor such as runit or
  bluepill for "init_style". This is automatically set in the
  `nginx::source` recipe when the init style is not bluepill or runit.

#### nginx::authorized_ips
- `node['nginx']['remote_ip_var']` - The remote ip variable name to
  use.
- `node['nginx']['authorized_ips']` - IPs authorized by the module

#### nginx::http_realip_module
From: http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_realip_module.html

- `node['nginx']['realip']['header']` - Header to use for the RealIp
  Module; only accepts "X-Forwarded-For" or "X-Real-IP"
- `node['nginx']['realip']['addresses']` - Addresses to use for the
  `http_realip` configuration.
- `node['nginx']['realip']['real_ip_recursive']` - If recursive search is enabled, the original client address that matches one of the trusted addresses is replaced by the last non-trusted address sent in the request header field. Can be on "on" or "off" (default).

### source
These attributes are used in the `nginx::source` recipe. Some of them
are dynamically modified during the run. See `attributes/source.rb`
for default values.

- `node['nginx']['source']['url']` - (versioned) URL for the Nginx
  source code. By default this will use the version specified as
  `node['nginx']['version'].
- `node['nginx']['source']['prefix']` - (versioned) prefix for
  installing nginx from source
- `node['nginx']['source']['conf_path']` - location of the main config
  file, in `node['nginx']['dir']` by default.
- `node['nginx']['source']['modules']` - Array of modules that should
  be compiled into Nginx by including their recipes in
  `nginx::source`.
- `node['nginx']['source']['default_configure_flags']` - The default
  flags passed to the configure script when building Nginx.
- `node['nginx']['configure_flags']` - Preserved for compatibility and
  dynamically generated from the
  `node['nginx']['source']['default_configure_flags']` in the
  `nginx::source` recipe.
* `node['nginx']['source']['use_existing_user']` - set to `true` if you
  do not want `nginx::source` recipe to create system user with name
  `node['nginx']['user']`.

### geoip
These attributes are used in the `nginx::http_geoip_module` recipe.
Please note that the `country_dat_checksum` and `city_dat_checksum`
are based on downloads from a datacenter in Fremont, CA, USA. You
really should override these with checksums for the geo tarballs from
your node location.

**Note** The upstream, maxmind.com, may block access for repeated
  downloads of the data files. It is recommended that you download and
  host the data files, and change the URLs in the attributes.

- `node['nginx']['geoip']['path']` - Location where to install the
  geoip libraries.
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['enable_city']` - Whether to enable City
  data
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['country_dat_url']` - Country data tarball
  URL
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['country_dat_checksum']` - Country data
  tarball checksum
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['city_dat_url']` - City data tarball URL
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['city_dat_checksum']` - City data tarball
  checksum
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['lib_version']` - Version of the GeoIP
  library to install
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['lib_url']` - (Versioned) Tarball URL of the
  GeoIP library
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['lib_checksum']` - Checksum of the GeoIP
  library tarball

### upload_progress
These attributes are used in the `nginx::upload_progress_module`
recipe.

- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['url']` - URL for the tarball.
- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['checksum']` - Checksum of the
  tarball.
- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['javascript_output']` - Output in javascript.
  Default is `true` for backwards compatibility.
- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['zone_name']` - Zone name which will
  be used to store the per-connection tracking information.
  Default is `proxied`.
- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['zone_size']` - Zone size in bytes.
  Default is `1m` (1 megabyte).

### passenger
These attributes are used in the `nginx::passenger` recipe.

- `node['nginx']['passenger']['version']` - passenger gem version
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['root']` - passenger gem root path
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['max_pool_size']` - maximum passenger
  pool size (default=10)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['ruby']` - Ruby path for Passenger to
  use (default=`$(which ruby)`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['spawn_method']` - passenger spawn
  method to use (default=`smart-lv2`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['buffer_response']` - turns on or off
  response buffering (default=`on`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['max_pool_size']` - passenger maximum
  pool size (default=`6`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['min_instances']` - minimum instances
  (default=`1`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['max_instances_per_app']` - maximum
  instances per app (default=`0`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['pool_idle_time']` - passenger pool idle
  time (default=`300`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['max_requests']` - maximum requests
  (default=`0`)

### echo
These attributes are used in the `nginx::http_echo_module` recipe.

- `node['nginx']['echo']['version']` - The version of `http_echo` you
  want (default: 0.40)
- `node['nginx']['echo']['url']` - URL for the tarball.
- `node['nginx']['echo']['checksum']` - Checksum of the tarball.

### status
These attributes are used in the `nginx::http_stub_status_module` recipe.

- `node['nginx']['status']['port']` - The port on which nginx will
  serve the status info (default: 8090)

### openssl_source
These attributes are used in the `nginx::openssl_source` recipe.

- `node['nginx']['openssl_source']['version']` - The version of OpenSSL
  you want to download and use (default: 1.0.1e)
- `node['nginx']['openssl_source']['url']` - The url for the OpenSSL source


Recipes
-------
This cookbook provides three main recipes for installing Nginx.

- `default.rb` - *Use this recipe* if you have a native package for
  Nginx.
- `repo.rb` - The developer of Nginx also maintain
  [stable packages](http://nginx.org/en/download.html) for several
  platforms.
- `source.rb` - *Use this recipe* if you do not have a native package for
  Nginx, or if you want to install a newer version than is available,
  or if you have custom module compilation needs.

Several recipes are related to the `source` recipe specifically. See
that recipe's section below for a description.

### default
The default recipe will install Nginx as a native package for the
system through the package manager and sets up the configuration
according to the Debian site enable/disable style with `sites-enabled`
using the `nxensite` and `nxdissite` scripts. The nginx service will
be managed with the normal init scripts that are presumably included
in the native package.

Includes the `ohai_plugin` recipe so the plugin is available.

### ohai_plugin
This recipe provides an Ohai plugin as a template. It is included by
both the `default` and `source` recipes.

### authorized_ips
Sets up configuration for the `authorized_ip` nginx module.

### source
This recipe is responsible for building Nginx from source. It ensures
that the required packages to build Nginx are installed (pcre,
openssl, compile tools). The source will be downloaded from the
`node['nginx']['source']['url']`. The `node['nginx']['user']` will be
created as a system user. If you want to use existing user set
`node['nginx']['source']['use_existing_user']` to `true`. The appropriate
configuration and log directories and config files will be created
as well according to the attributes `node['nginx']['dir']` and
`node['nginx']['log_dir']`.

The recipe attempts to detect whether additional modules should be
added to the configure command through recipe inclusion (see below),
and whether the version or configuration flags have changed and should
trigger a recompile.

The nginx service will be set up according to
`node['nginx']['init_style']`. Available options are:

- runit: uses runit cookbook and sets up `runit_service`.
- bluepill: uses bluepill cookbook and sets up `bluepill_service`.
- anything else (e.g., "init") will use the nginx init script
  template.

**RHEL/CentOS** This recipe should work on RHEL/CentOS with "init" as
  the init style.

The following recipes are used to build module support into Nginx. To
use a module in the `nginx::source` recipe, add its recipe name to the
attribute `node['nginx']['source']['modules']`.

- `ipv6.rb` - enables IPv6 support
- `http_echo_module.rb` - downloads the `http_echo_module` module and
  enables it as a module when compiling nginx.
- `http_geoip_module.rb` - installs the GeoIP libraries and data files
  and enables the module for compilation.
- `http_gzip_static_module.rb` - enables the module for compilation.
- `http_perl_module.rb` - enables embedded Perl for compilation.
- `http_realip_module.rb` - enables the module for compilation and
  creates the configuration.
- `http_ssl_module.rb` - enables SSL for compilation.
- `http_stub_status_module.rb` - provides `nginx_status` configuration
  and enables the module for compilation.
- `naxsi_module` - enables the naxsi module for the web application
  firewall for nginx.
- `passenger` - builds the passenger gem and configuration for
  "`mod_passenger`".
- `upload_progress_module.rb` - builds the `upload_progress` module
  and enables it as a module when compiling nginx.
- `openssl_source.rb` - downloads and uses custom OpenSSL source
  when compiling nginx


Adding New Modules
------------------
To add a new module to be compiled into nginx in the source recipe,
the node's run state is manipulated in a recipe, and the module as a
recipe should be added to `node['nginx']['source']['modules']`. For
example:

```ruby
node.run_state['nginx_configure_flags'] =
  node.run_state['nginx_configure_flags'] | ['--with-http_stub_status_module']
```

The recipe will be included by `recipe[nginx::source]` automatically,
adding the configure flags. Add any other configuration templates or
other resources as required. See the recipes described above for
examples.


Ohai Plugin
-----------
The `ohai_plugin` recipe includes an Ohai plugin. It will be
automatically installed and activated, providing the following
attributes via ohai, no matter how nginx is installed (source or
package):

- `node['nginx']['version']` - version of nginx
- `node['nginx']['configure_arguments']` - options passed to
  `./configure` when nginx was built
- `node['nginx']['prefix']` - installation prefix
- `node['nginx']['conf_path']` - configuration file path

In the source recipe, it is used to determine whether control
attributes for building nginx have changed.


Usage
-----
Include the recipe on your node or role that fits how you wish to
install Nginx on your system per the recipes section above. Modify the
attributes as required in your role to change how various
configuration is applied per the attributes section above. In general,
override attributes in the role should be used when changing
attributes.

There's some redundancy in that the config handling hasn't been
separated from the installation method (yet), so use only one of the
recipes, default or source.


License & Authors
-----------------
- Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
- Author:: Adam Jacob (<adam@opscode.com>)
- Author:: AJ Christensen (<aj@opscode.com>)
- Author:: Jamie Winsor (<jamie@vialstudios.com>)

```text
Copyright 2008-2013, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

Commit message:

attributised passenger gems (primarily removed default rake declaration)

README.md, after:

nginx Cookbook
==============
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/opscode-cookbooks/nginx.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/opscode-cookbooks/nginx)

Installs nginx from package OR source code and sets up configuration handling similar to Debian's Apache2 scripts.


Requirements
------------
### Cookbooks
The following cookbooks are direct dependencies because they're used for common "default" functionality.

- build-essential (for nginx::source)
- ohai (for nginx::ohai_plugin)

The following cookbook is not a strict dependency because its use can be controlled by an attribute, so it may not be a common "default."

- runit (for nginx::source)
- On RHEL family distros, the "yum" cookbook is required for `recipe[yum::epel]`.
- On Ubuntu, when using Nginx.org's stable package, `recipe[apt::default]` is required.


### Platforms
The following platforms are supported and tested under test kitchen:

- Ubuntu 10.04, Ubuntu 12.04
- CentOS 5.8, 6.3

Other Debian and RHEL family distributions are assumed to work.


Attributes
----------
Node attributes for this cookbook are logically separated into different files. Some attributes are set only via a specific recipe.

### default
Generally used attributes. Some have platform specific values. See `attributes/default.rb`. "The Config" refers to "nginx.conf" the main config file.

- `node['nginx']['dir']` - Location for Nginx configuration.
- `node['nginx']['log_dir']` - Location for Nginx logs.
- `node['nginx']['user']` - User that Nginx will run as.
- `node['nginx']['group]` - Group for Nginx.
- `node['nginx']['binary']` - Path to the Nginx binary.
- `node['nginx']['init_style']` - How to run Nginx as a service when
  using `nginx::source`. Values can be "runit", "upstart", "init" or
  "bluepill".  When using runit or bluepill, those recipes will be
  included as well and are dependencies of this cookbook.  Recipes
  are not included for upstart, it is assumed that upstart is built
  into the platform you are using (ubuntu or el6).  This attribute is
  not used in the `nginx` recipe because the package manager's init
  script style for the platform is assumed.  Upstart is never set as
  a default as this represents a change in behavior, if you are running
  ubuntu or el6 and want to use upstart, please set this attribute in
  a role or similar.
- `node['nginx']['upstart']['foreground']` - Set this to true if you
  want upstart to run nginx in the foreground, set to false if you
  want upstart to detach and track the process via pid.
- `node['nginx']['upstart']['runlevels']` - String of runlevels in the
  format '2345' which determines which runlevels nginx will start at
  when entering and stop at when leaving.
- `node['nginx']['upstart']['respawn_limit']` - Respawn limit in upstart
  stanza format, count followed by space followed by interval in seconds.
- `node['nginx']['pid']` - Location of the PID file.
- `node['nginx']['keepalive']` - Whether to use `keepalive_timeout`,
  any value besides "on" will leave that option out of the config.
- `node['nginx']['keepalive_timeout']` - used for config value of
  `keepalive_timeout`.
- `node['nginx']['worker_processes']` - used for config value of
  `worker_processes`.
- `node['nginx']['worker_connections']` - used for config value of
  `events { worker_connections }`
- `node['nginx']['worker_rlimit_nofile']` - used for config value of
  `worker_rlimit_nofile`. Can replace any "ulimit -n" command. The
  value depend on your usage (cache or not) but must always be
  superior than worker_connections.
- `node['nginx']['multi_accept']` - used for config value of `events {
  multi_accept }`. Try to accept() as many connections as possible.
  Disable by default.
- `node['nginx']['event']` - used for config value of `events { use
  }`. Set the event-model. By default nginx looks for the most
  suitable method for your OS.
- `node['nginx']['server_tokens']` - used for config value of
  `server_tokens`.
- `node['nginx']['server_names_hash_bucket_size']` - used for config
  value of `server_names_hash_bucket_size`.
- `node['nginx']['disable_access_log']` - set to true to disable the
  general access log, may be useful on high traffic sites.
- `node['nginx']['access_log_options']` - Set to a string of additional options
  to be appended to the access log directive
- `node['nginx']['error_log_options']` - Set to a string of additional options
  to be appended to the error log directive
- `node['nginx']['default_site_enabled']` - enable the default site
- `node['nginx']['sendfile']` - Whether to use `sendfile`. Defaults to "on".
- `node['nginx']['install_method']` - Whether nginx is installed from
  packages or from source.
- `node['nginx']['types_hash_max_size']` - Used for the
  `types_hash_max_size` configuration directive.
- `node['nginx']['types_hash_bucket_size']` - Used for the
  `types_hash_bucket_size` configuration directive.
- `node['nginx']['proxy_read_timeout']` - defines a timeout (between two
  successive read operations) for reading a response from the proxied server.
- `node['nginx']['client_body_buffer_size']` - used for config value of
  `client_body_buffer_size`.
- `node['nginx']['client_max_body_size']` - specifies the maximum accepted body
  size of a client request, as indicated by the request header Content-Length.
- `node['nginx']['repo_source']` - when installed from a package this attribute affects
  which yum repositories, if any, will be added before installing the nginx package. The
  default value of 'epel' will use the `yum::epel` recipe, 'nginx' will use the
  `nginx::repo` recipe, and setting no value will not add any additional repositories.

Rate Limiting

- `node['nginx']['enable_rate_limiting']` - set to true to enable rate
  limiting (`limit_req_zone` in nginx.conf)
- `node['nginx']['rate_limiting_zone_name']` - sets the zone in
  `limit_req_zone`.
- `node['nginx']['rate_limiting_backoff']` - sets the backoff time for
  `limit_req_zone`.
- `node['nginx']['rate_limit']` - set the rate limit amount for
  `limit_req_zone`.

### gzip module

- `node['nginx']['gzip']` - Whether to use gzip, can be "on" or "off"
- `node['nginx']['gzip_http_version']` - used for config value of `gzip_http_version`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_comp_level']` - used for config value of `gzip_comp_level`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_proxied']` - used for config value of `gzip_proxied`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_vary']` - used for config value of `gzip_vary`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_buffers']` - used for config value of `gzip_buffers`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_types']` - used for config value of `gzip_types` - must be an Array.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_min_length']` - used for config value of `gzip_min_length`.
- `node['nginx']['gzip_disable']` - used for config value of `gzip_disable`.

### Attributes set in recipes

#### nginx::source
- `node['nginx']['daemon_disable']` - Whether the daemon should be
  disabled which can be true or false; disable the daemon (run in the
  foreground) when using a service supervisor such as runit or
  bluepill for "init_style". This is automatically set in the
  `nginx::source` recipe when the init style is not bluepill or runit.

#### nginx::authorized_ips
- `node['nginx']['remote_ip_var']` - The remote ip variable name to
  use.
- `node['nginx']['authorized_ips']` - IPs authorized by the module

#### nginx::http_realip_module
From: http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_realip_module.html

- `node['nginx']['realip']['header']` - Header to use for the RealIp
  Module; only accepts "X-Forwarded-For" or "X-Real-IP"
- `node['nginx']['realip']['addresses']` - Addresses to use for the
  `http_realip` configuration.
- `node['nginx']['realip']['real_ip_recursive']` - If recursive search is enabled, the original client address that matches one of the trusted addresses is replaced by the last non-trusted address sent in the request header field. Can be on "on" or "off" (default).

### source
These attributes are used in the `nginx::source` recipe. Some of them
are dynamically modified during the run. See `attributes/source.rb`
for default values.

- `node['nginx']['source']['url']` - (versioned) URL for the Nginx
  source code. By default this will use the version specified as
  `node['nginx']['version'].
- `node['nginx']['source']['prefix']` - (versioned) prefix for
  installing nginx from source
- `node['nginx']['source']['conf_path']` - location of the main config
  file, in `node['nginx']['dir']` by default.
- `node['nginx']['source']['modules']` - Array of modules that should
  be compiled into Nginx by including their recipes in
  `nginx::source`.
- `node['nginx']['source']['default_configure_flags']` - The default
  flags passed to the configure script when building Nginx.
- `node['nginx']['configure_flags']` - Preserved for compatibility and
  dynamically generated from the
  `node['nginx']['source']['default_configure_flags']` in the
  `nginx::source` recipe.
* `node['nginx']['source']['use_existing_user']` - set to `true` if you
  do not want `nginx::source` recipe to create system user with name
  `node['nginx']['user']`.

### geoip
These attributes are used in the `nginx::http_geoip_module` recipe.
Please note that the `country_dat_checksum` and `city_dat_checksum`
are based on downloads from a datacenter in Fremont, CA, USA. You
really should override these with checksums for the geo tarballs from
your node location.

**Note** The upstream, maxmind.com, may block access for repeated
  downloads of the data files. It is recommended that you download and
  host the data files, and change the URLs in the attributes.

- `node['nginx']['geoip']['path']` - Location where to install the
  geoip libraries.
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['enable_city']` - Whether to enable City
  data
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['country_dat_url']` - Country data tarball
  URL
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['country_dat_checksum']` - Country data
  tarball checksum
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['city_dat_url']` - City data tarball URL
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['city_dat_checksum']` - City data tarball
  checksum
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['lib_version']` - Version of the GeoIP
  library to install
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['lib_url']` - (Versioned) Tarball URL of the
  GeoIP library
- `node['nginx']['geoip']['lib_checksum']` - Checksum of the GeoIP
  library tarball

### upload_progress
These attributes are used in the `nginx::upload_progress_module`
recipe.

- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['url']` - URL for the tarball.
- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['checksum']` - Checksum of the
  tarball.
- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['javascript_output']` - Output in javascript.
  Default is `true` for backwards compatibility.
- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['zone_name']` - Zone name which will
  be used to store the per-connection tracking information.
  Default is `proxied`.
- `node['nginx']['upload_progress']['zone_size']` - Zone size in bytes.
  Default is `1m` (1 megabyte).

### passenger
These attributes are used in the `nginx::passenger` recipe.

- `node['nginx']['passenger']['version']` - passenger gem version
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['root']` - passenger gem root path
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['max_pool_size']` - maximum passenger
  pool size (default=10)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['ruby']` - Ruby path for Passenger to
  use (default=`$(which ruby)`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['spawn_method']` - passenger spawn
  method to use (default=`smart-lv2`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['buffer_response']` - turns on or off
  response buffering (default=`on`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['max_pool_size']` - passenger maximum
  pool size (default=`6`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['min_instances']` - minimum instances
  (default=`1`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['max_instances_per_app']` - maximum
  instances per app (default=`0`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['pool_idle_time']` - passenger pool idle
  time (default=`300`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['max_requests']` - maximum requests
  (default=`0`)
- `node['nginx']['passenger']['gems']` - additional gems to be installed along with passenger
  response buffering (default=`rake`)

### echo
These attributes are used in the `nginx::http_echo_module` recipe.

- `node['nginx']['echo']['version']` - The version of `http_echo` you
  want (default: 0.40)
- `node['nginx']['echo']['url']` - URL for the tarball.
- `node['nginx']['echo']['checksum']` - Checksum of the tarball.

### status
These attributes are used in the `nginx::http_stub_status_module` recipe.

- `node['nginx']['status']['port']` - The port on which nginx will
  serve the status info (default: 8090)

### openssl_source
These attributes are used in the `nginx::openssl_source` recipe.

- `node['nginx']['openssl_source']['version']` - The version of OpenSSL
  you want to download and use (default: 1.0.1e)
- `node['nginx']['openssl_source']['url']` - The url for the OpenSSL source


Recipes
-------
This cookbook provides three main recipes for installing Nginx.

- `default.rb` - *Use this recipe* if you have a native package for
  Nginx.
- `repo.rb` - The developer of Nginx also maintain
  [stable packages](http://nginx.org/en/download.html) for several
  platforms.
- `source.rb` - *Use this recipe* if you do not have a native package for
  Nginx, or if you want to install a newer version than is available,
  or if you have custom module compilation needs.

Several recipes are related to the `source` recipe specifically. See
that recipe's section below for a description.

### default
The default recipe will install Nginx as a native package for the
system through the package manager and sets up the configuration
according to the Debian site enable/disable style with `sites-enabled`
using the `nxensite` and `nxdissite` scripts. The nginx service will
be managed with the normal init scripts that are presumably included
in the native package.

Includes the `ohai_plugin` recipe so the plugin is available.

### ohai_plugin
This recipe provides an Ohai plugin as a template. It is included by
both the `default` and `source` recipes.

### authorized_ips
Sets up configuration for the `authorized_ip` nginx module.

### source
This recipe is responsible for building Nginx from source. It ensures
that the required packages to build Nginx are installed (pcre,
openssl, compile tools). The source will be downloaded from the
`node['nginx']['source']['url']`. The `node['nginx']['user']` will be
created as a system user. If you want to use existing user set
`node['nginx']['source']['use_existing_user']` to `true`. The appropriate
configuration and log directories and config files will be created
as well according to the attributes `node['nginx']['dir']` and
`node['nginx']['log_dir']`.

The recipe attempts to detect whether additional modules should be
added to the configure command through recipe inclusion (see below),
and whether the version or configuration flags have changed and should
trigger a recompile.

The nginx service will be set up according to
`node['nginx']['init_style']`. Available options are:

- runit: uses runit cookbook and sets up `runit_service`.
- bluepill: uses bluepill cookbook and sets up `bluepill_service`.
- anything else (e.g., "init") will use the nginx init script
  template.

**RHEL/CentOS** This recipe should work on RHEL/CentOS with "init" as
  the init style.

The following recipes are used to build module support into Nginx. To
use a module in the `nginx::source` recipe, add its recipe name to the
attribute `node['nginx']['source']['modules']`.

- `ipv6.rb` - enables IPv6 support
- `http_echo_module.rb` - downloads the `http_echo_module` module and
  enables it as a module when compiling nginx.
- `http_geoip_module.rb` - installs the GeoIP libraries and data files
  and enables the module for compilation.
- `http_gzip_static_module.rb` - enables the module for compilation.
- `http_perl_module.rb` - enables embedded Perl for compilation.
- `http_realip_module.rb` - enables the module for compilation and
  creates the configuration.
- `http_ssl_module.rb` - enables SSL for compilation.
- `http_stub_status_module.rb` - provides `nginx_status` configuration
  and enables the module for compilation.
- `naxsi_module` - enables the naxsi module for the web application
  firewall for nginx.
- `passenger` - builds the passenger gem and configuration for
  "`mod_passenger`".
- `upload_progress_module.rb` - builds the `upload_progress` module
  and enables it as a module when compiling nginx.
- `openssl_source.rb` - downloads and uses custom OpenSSL source
  when compiling nginx


Adding New Modules
------------------
To add a new module to be compiled into nginx in the source recipe,
the node's run state is manipulated in a recipe, and the module as a
recipe should be added to `node['nginx']['source']['modules']`. For
example:

```ruby
node.run_state['nginx_configure_flags'] =
  node.run_state['nginx_configure_flags'] | ['--with-http_stub_status_module']
```

The recipe will be included by `recipe[nginx::source]` automatically,
adding the configure flags. Add any other configuration templates or
other resources as required. See the recipes described above for
examples.


Ohai Plugin
-----------
The `ohai_plugin` recipe includes an Ohai plugin. It will be
automatically installed and activated, providing the following
attributes via ohai, no matter how nginx is installed (source or
package):

- `node['nginx']['version']` - version of nginx
- `node['nginx']['configure_arguments']` - options passed to
  `./configure` when nginx was built
- `node['nginx']['prefix']` - installation prefix
- `node['nginx']['conf_path']` - configuration file path

In the source recipe, it is used to determine whether control
attributes for building nginx have changed.


Usage
-----
Include the recipe on your node or role that fits how you wish to
install Nginx on your system per the recipes section above. Modify the
attributes as required in your role to change how various
configuration is applied per the attributes section above. In general,
override attributes in the role should be used when changing
attributes.

There's some redundancy in that the config handling hasn't been
separated from the installation method (yet), so use only one of the
recipes, default or source.


License & Authors
-----------------
- Author:: Joshua Timberman (<joshua@opscode.com>)
- Author:: Adam Jacob (<adam@opscode.com>)
- Author:: AJ Christensen (<aj@opscode.com>)
- Author:: Jamie Winsor (<jamie@vialstudios.com>)

```text
Copyright 2008-2013, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```
